---
title: "PhysioAge Direction 2013-03-05"
layout: 'post'
draft: true
permalink: 2013/03/05/physioage-dump-20130305
published: 2013-03-05 22:41:27 UTC
---
h2. Where are we now?

Having just released v3.0.beta.1, there is a lot going on in my brain.

h3. budget

I'm concerned about the budget. I totally stopped paying attention to it in order to get version 3 pushed out. I haven't heard anything from Jerry but I expect to at some point. Should I mention it, stop working on physioage, or just ignore it until he mentions it? I still need to get v3 out of beta.

h3. Anatoliy

Anatoliy just resigned from PhysioAge. I think there is a chance I could get a raise for him but he didn't seem particularly interested in working further in this project anyway, so I'm looking for new devs. Just takes time, but I think I have some good prospects.

h3. Version 3

I'm proud of version 3, but also have concerns. Pretty much all the features from version 3 revolved around the EMR side of the app. It was necessary, but is now discouraging. After all, reporting is the primary goal. I want to get back to producing an exceptional report.

h3. Direction

I haven't been so much in touch with Jerry and Co lately. They have been busy growing new parts of the business and I have been busy finishing v3, so that's natural. One thing that concerns me is that I haven't seen then using the beta yet. At all. On one hand, this reminds me of the CAHMS fiasco. On the other hand, I know they are planning to pass the beta-testing off to Meredith, who should be back in town tomorrow... so I'll wait a few days before I say anything.

I just finished draft 1 of a "whitepaper" for Joe. While trying to organize my thoughts, I came up with a mission statement. I suppose it doesn't count as a mission statement unless it's embraced by all, but I'm going to continue to use it as a guide for direction when possible, and to edit it when it isn't an appropriate guide:

      PhysioAge Reporting is a web application that generates exceptionally patient-centric, personalized and illuminating medical reports that educate and enable our patients in owning their own health.

The list of things that are important, here "patient-centric, personalized, illuminating" is the thing I most struggle to pin down. Which things are most important?

* Patient-Centric -- I think the team agrees this is the goal, but we don't agree necessarily how to get there. Many of the explanations are tediously academic, and it isn't clear which measurements are more important than others to overall health.

* personalized -- how is this different from patient-centric? I think it's a shift, but different. So when you're being conceptual, maybe it should be combined. But patient-centric does not necessarily mean personalized. Need feedback.

* illuminating -- are patients learning anything from our report? What is their interest level before and after? Are we providing the kind of information that is relevant and useful? I suspect we could be doing much better on this front, but am not sure with whom to consult. I know Joe wants the same thing but thinks we are heading in the right direction with respect to consumable information.

I just drafted an email to Jerry yet again suggesting we contact patients for feedback. But then I sent it to Tina to see what she thought.

I recently re-discovered the Wired medical report makeover. I have got to find a way to convince Joe that this is the way go to... he is convinced that all relevant data must be tied together, whereas I think we should start with a very short summary and increase data exponentially.... or fibbonaciily?

"The Medical Test Makeover by Wired":http://www.wired.com/magazine/2010/11/ff_bloodwork/2/
"A related video, by the editor of Wired":http://www.ted.com/talks/thomas_goetz_it_s_time_to_redesign_medical_data.html
"One of the makeover artists":http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/2010/visualizing-bloodtests/#disqus_thread

Also I should research "TED Med" and Wired's medical conference.

This looks pretty interesting:
"HINTS":http://hints.cancer.gov/

h3. Data side

Cool Video that may help with multiple values per measurement:
"We really don't know how to compute":http://www.infoq.com/presentations/We-Really-Dont-Know-How-To-Compute

I think we could be doing a lot to improve the *age calculations with artificial intelligence -- in part like Anatoliy's "genetic" cells and representative math nodes like (+ (2 5)) ... but I feel we've spent too much time in this area lately.

h3. Lexicon Maintenance

Joe and I have been working to clean up some field names. It feels good, but the way he glances over some of these things makes me think he's not fully understanding. And that's pretty obvious -- non devs can't understand to what extent these things are and are not useful. But I think I've helped to push him in the right direction.

h2. Where do we go now?

* Avoid overload of information
* Create cone of information. Little data, a little more, a little more.
** Find support for this in the form of an academic paper.
* Act on information from TEDMed talk:
** Connect the information to their lives... emotional connection because it's from the patient
** present choices options... tradeoffs, benefits
** clear point of action... now, later, etc.
* Figure out how to triage / prioritize results.
** Indicate and list by priority which measurements are most important to overall health
** The best way might be to look at various results and just say, "What here is important?"
** Are there any doctors on odesk from like Cambodia or whatever?
* Do the patients understand and remember their care plan? Why isn't that in here?
* Should recommendations have indications and contraindications?
* Capture "predictive of overall health" on some scale in Lexicon
* Capture "medical credibility" on some scale in Lexicon
* Capture "predictive of a near-term problem"
* Capture "predictive of a long-term problem"
* Discuss whether "Exceptional" and "Optimal" should / could be renamed "Desirable"
* Maybe we should transition to "Perfect", "Desirable", "Good", "Borderline", "Problematic", "Critical". Not every noumenon would have all of them, obviously.

